cran-comments.md, before:

Dear CRAN volunteers,

Thank you for reviewing this submission. The main updates in this version include (i) making data download procedures more robust, (ii) fixing compatibility issues with recent updates to GEOS (version 3.11.0), (iii) improving the documentation.

Cheers,

Jeff

# Test environments

* [Ubuntu 20.04, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu)
* [Ubuntu 20.04, R-devel](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu)
* [Mac OSX 10.15, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Mac+OSX%22)
* [macOS 11.5.2 (arm64), R-release (macOS builder)](https://mac.r-project.org/macbuilder/submit.html)
* [Windows Server 2019, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AWindows)
* [Windows Server 2008 (x64), R-devel (Win-Builder)](https://win-builder.r-project.org/)

# R CMD check results

0 errors | 0 warnings | 2 note

# Package check notes

* Possibly misspelled words in DESCRIPTION:
  WDOECM (7:28)

  **This term is an acronym for the World Database on Other Effective Area-Based Conservation Measures (as noted in the package Description).**

* Suggests or Enhances not in mainstream repositories:
  prepr

  **The prepr R package is an optional dependency that is available on GitHub (<https://github.com/dickoa/prepr>). Instructions for installing the prepr R package are provided in the DESCRIPTION file and the package README file.**

# Downstream dependencies

There are no existing packages that depend on this package.

Commit message:

update citation (#66)
* update citation
* rebuild site
* update urls + cran comments

cran-comments.md, after:

Dear CRAN volunteers,

Thank you for reviewing this submission. The main updates in this version include (i) making data download and cleaning procedures more robust, (ii) improving the documentation, and (iii) updating the citation information.

Cheers,

Jeff

# Test environments

* [Ubuntu 20.04, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu)
* [Ubuntu 20.04, R-devel](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu)
* [Mac OSX 10.15, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Mac+OSX%22)
* [macOS 11.5.2 (arm64), R-release (macOS builder)](https://mac.r-project.org/macbuilder/submit.html)
* [Windows Server 2019, R-release](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/actions?query=workflow%3AWindows)
* [Windows Server 2008 (x64), R-devel (Win-Builder)](https://win-builder.r-project.org/)

# R CMD check results

0 errors | 0 warnings | 3 notes

# Package check notes

* Possibly misspelled words in DESCRIPTION:
  WDOECM (7:28)

  **This term is an acronym for the World Database on Other Effective Area-Based Conservation Measures (as noted in the package Description).**

* Suggests or Enhances not in mainstream repositories:
  prepr

  **The prepr R package is an optional dependency that is available on GitHub (<https://github.com/dickoa/prepr>). Instructions for installing the prepr R package are provided in the DESCRIPTION file and the package README file.**

* Found the following (possibly) invalid URLs:
    URL: https://doi.org/10.1111/conl.12158
      FROM: README.md
      Status: Service Unavailable
      Message: 503
    URL: https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aac9180
      FROM: README.md
      Status: Service Unavailable
      Message: 503

  **I have manually checked and can confirm that these URLs are correct.**

# Downstream dependencies

There are no existing packages that depend on this package.
