README.md, before:


<!--- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
wdpar: Interface to the World Database on Protected Areas
---------------------------------------------------------

[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lifecycle-maturing-blue.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing) [![Travis Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/prioritizr/wdpar/master.svg?label=Linux%20%26%20Mac%20OSX)](https://travis-ci.org/prioritizr/wdpar) [![AppVeyor Build Status](https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/jeffreyhanson/wdpar/master.svg?label=Windows)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jeffreyhanson/wdpar) [![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/github/prioritizr/wdpar/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/prioritizr/wdpar?branch=master) [![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/wdpar)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=wdpar)

### Overview

The *wdpar R* package provides an interface to the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA). It provides functions for automatically downloading data (from [Protected Planet](http://protectedplanet.net)) and cleaning data following best practices (outlined in [Butchart *et al.* 2015](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/conl.12158); [Runge *et al.* 2015](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aac9180); and [Protected Planet](https://www.protectedplanet.net/c/calculating-protected-area-coverage)).

### Installation

To install the developmental version of *wdpar*, use the following *R* code:

``` r
if (!require(devtools))
  install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("prioritizr/wdpar")
```

### Usage

Here we will provide a short introduction to the *wdpar R* package. First, we will load the *wdpar R* package. We will also load the *sf* and *dplyr R* packages to help explore the data.

``` r
# load packages
library(wdpar)
library(dplyr)
library(ggmap)
```

Now we will download protected area data for Malta. Note that we could have alternatively downloaded the data using Malta's [ISO3 code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) (MLT).

``` r
# download protected area data for Malta
mlt_raw_pa_data <- wdpa_fetch("Malta", wait = TRUE)
```

Next, we will clean the data set. See `?wdpa_clean` for a detailed description of the data cleaning process.

``` r
# clean Malta data
mlt_pa_data <- wdpa_clean(mlt_raw_pa_data)
```

Print preview of the data associated with each protected area.

``` r
# print preview
head(mlt_pa_data)
```

    ## Simple feature collection with 6 features and 28 fields
    ## geometry type:  MULTIPOLYGON
    ## dimension:      XY
    ## bbox:           xmin: 1382455 ymin: 4280784 xmax: 1399726 ymax: 4299684
    ## epsg (SRID):    NA
    ## proj4string:    +proj=cea +lon_0=0 +lat_ts=30 +x_0=0 +y_0=0 +datum=WGS84 +units=m +no_defs
    ## precision:      1000 
    ## # A tibble: 6 x 29
    ##   WDPAID WDPA_PID PA_DEF NAME  ORIG_NAME DESIG DESIG_ENG DESIG_TYPE
    ##    <dbl> <chr>    <chr>  <chr> <chr>     <chr> <chr>     <chr>     
    ## 1 1.94e5 194420   1      Filf… Filfla    Rise… Nature R… National  
    ## 2 1.94e5 194425   1      Il-G… Il-Gżejj… Rise… Nature R… National  
    ## 3 5.56e8 5555886… 1      Il-M… Il-Majji… Park… National… National  
    ## 4 1.75e5 174757   1      Il-Ġ… Il-Ġonna… List… List of … National  
    ## 5 1.75e5 174758   1      Bidn… Bidnija,… List… List of … National  
    ## 6 1.94e5 194415   1      Il-Ġ… Il-Ġonna… List… List of … National  
    ## # ... with 21 more variables: IUCN_CAT <chr>, INT_CRIT <chr>,
    ## #   MARINE <chr>, REP_M_AREA <dbl>, REP_AREA <dbl>, NO_TAKE <chr>,
    ## #   NO_TK_AREA <dbl>, STATUS <chr>, STATUS_YR <dbl>, GOV_TYPE <chr>,
    ## #   OWN_TYPE <chr>, MANG_AUTH <chr>, MANG_PLAN <chr>, VERIF <chr>,
    ## #   METADATAID <dbl>, SUB_LOC <chr>, PARENT_ISO <chr>, ISO3 <chr>,
    ## #   GEOMETRY_TYPE <chr>, AREA_KM2 <dbl>, geometry <MULTIPOLYGON [m]>

Finally, after cleaning the data, let's plot a map showing Malta's protected areas and color each area according to its management category ([as defined by the The International Union for Conservation of Nature](https://www.iucn.org/theme/protected-areas/about/protected-area-categories)).

``` r
# reproject data to longitude/latitude for plotting
mlt_pa_data <- st_transform(mlt_pa_data, 4326)

# download basemap imagery
bg <- get_stamenmap(unname(st_bbox(mlt_pa_data)), zoom = 8,
                    maptype = "watercolor", force = TRUE)

# make map
ggmap(bg) +
geom_sf(aes(fill = IUCN_CAT), data = mlt_pa_data, inherit.aes = FALSE) +
theme(axis.title = element_blank(), legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-readme-map-1.png" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

For more examples using the *wdpar R* package, please refer to the [package vignette](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/articles/wdpar.html).

### Citation

Please cite the *wdpar R* package and the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA) in publications.


    To cite the wdpar package in publications, use:

      Hanson JO (2018) wdpar: Interface to the World Database on
      Protected Areas. R package version 0.0.0.1. Available at:
      https://github.com/jeffreyhanson/wdpar

      UNEP-WCMC and IUCN (2018) Protected Planet: The World Database
      on Protected Areas (WDPA), [insert month/year of the version
      downloaded], Cambridge, UK: UNEP-WCMC and IUCN. Available at:
      www.protectedplanet.net.

    Please cite both the World Database on Protected Areas data set
    and this package.
    To see these entries in BibTeX format, use 'print(<citation>,
    bibtex=TRUE)', 'toBibtex(.)', or set
    'options(citation.bibtex.max=999)'.

Commit message:

add info about point localities

README.md, after:


<!--- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
wdpar: Interface to the World Database on Protected Areas
---------------------------------------------------------

[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lifecycle-maturing-blue.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing) [![Travis Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/prioritizr/wdpar/master.svg?label=Linux%20%26%20Mac%20OSX)](https://travis-ci.org/prioritizr/wdpar) [![AppVeyor Build Status](https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/jeffreyhanson/wdpar/master.svg?label=Windows)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jeffreyhanson/wdpar) [![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/github/prioritizr/wdpar/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/prioritizr/wdpar?branch=master) [![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/wdpar)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=wdpar)

### Overview

The *wdpar R* package provides an interface to the [World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA)](https://www.protectedplanet.net/). It provides functions for downloading and cleaning data following best practices (outlined in [Butchart *et al.* 2015](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/conl.12158); [Runge *et al.* 2015](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aac9180); and [Protected Planet](https://www.protectedplanet.net/c/calculating-protected-area-coverage)).

### Installation

To install the developmental version of *wdpar*, use the following *R* code:

``` r
if (!require(devtools))
  install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("prioritizr/wdpar")
```

### Usage

Here we will provide a short introduction to the *wdpar R* package. First, we will load the *wdpar R* package. We will also load the *sf* and *dplyr R* packages to help explore the data.

``` r
# load packages
library(wdpar)
library(dplyr)
library(ggmap)
```

Now we will download protected area data for Malta from [Protected Planet](protectedplanet.net). We can achieve this by specifying Malta's country name (i.e. `"Malta"`) or Malta's [ISO3 code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) (i.e. `"MLT"`). Note that protected areas represented as point localities will be absent when fetching data for an individual country. Please refer to the package vignette for information on obtaining all protected areas and including those that are represented as point localities.

``` r
# download protected area data for Malta
mlt_raw_pa_data <- wdpa_fetch("Malta", wait = TRUE)
```

Next, we will clean the data set. See `?wdpa_clean` for a detailed description of the data cleaning process.

``` r
# clean Malta data
mlt_pa_data <- wdpa_clean(mlt_raw_pa_data)
```

Print preview of the data associated with each protected area.

``` r
# print preview
head(mlt_pa_data)
```

    ## Simple feature collection with 6 features and 28 fields
    ## geometry type:  MULTIPOLYGON
    ## dimension:      XY
    ## bbox:           xmin: 1382455 ymin: 4280784 xmax: 1399726 ymax: 4299684
    ## epsg (SRID):    NA
    ## proj4string:    +proj=cea +lon_0=0 +lat_ts=30 +x_0=0 +y_0=0 +datum=WGS84 +units=m +no_defs
    ## precision:      1000 
    ## # A tibble: 6 x 29
    ##   WDPAID WDPA_PID PA_DEF NAME  ORIG_NAME DESIG DESIG_ENG DESIG_TYPE
    ##    <dbl> <chr>    <chr>  <chr> <chr>     <chr> <chr>     <chr>     
    ## 1 1.94e5 194420   1      Filf… Filfla    Rise… Nature R… National  
    ## 2 1.94e5 194425   1      Il-G… Il-Gżejj… Rise… Nature R… National  
    ## 3 5.56e8 5555886… 1      Il-M… Il-Majji… Park… National… National  
    ## 4 1.75e5 174757   1      Il-Ġ… Il-Ġonna… List… List of … National  
    ## 5 1.75e5 174758   1      Bidn… Bidnija,… List… List of … National  
    ## 6 1.94e5 194415   1      Il-Ġ… Il-Ġonna… List… List of … National  
    ## # ... with 21 more variables: IUCN_CAT <chr>, INT_CRIT <chr>,
    ## #   MARINE <chr>, REP_M_AREA <dbl>, REP_AREA <dbl>, NO_TAKE <chr>,
    ## #   NO_TK_AREA <dbl>, STATUS <chr>, STATUS_YR <dbl>, GOV_TYPE <chr>,
    ## #   OWN_TYPE <chr>, MANG_AUTH <chr>, MANG_PLAN <chr>, VERIF <chr>,
    ## #   METADATAID <dbl>, SUB_LOC <chr>, PARENT_ISO <chr>, ISO3 <chr>,
    ## #   GEOMETRY_TYPE <chr>, AREA_KM2 <dbl>, geometry <MULTIPOLYGON [m]>

Finally, after cleaning the data, let's plot a map showing Malta's protected areas and color each area according to its management category ([as defined by the The International Union for Conservation of Nature](https://www.iucn.org/theme/protected-areas/about/protected-area-categories)).

``` r
# reproject data to longitude/latitude for plotting
mlt_pa_data <- st_transform(mlt_pa_data, 4326)

# download basemap imagery
bg <- get_stamenmap(unname(st_bbox(mlt_pa_data)), zoom = 8,
                    maptype = "watercolor", force = TRUE)

# make map
ggmap(bg) +
geom_sf(aes(fill = IUCN_CAT), data = mlt_pa_data, inherit.aes = FALSE) +
theme(axis.title = element_blank(), legend.position = "bottom")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-readme-map-1.png" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

For more examples using the *wdpar R* package, please refer to the [package vignette](https://github.com/prioritizr/wdpar/articles/wdpar.html).

### Citation

Please cite the *wdpar R* package and the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA) in publications.


    To cite the wdpar package in publications, use:

      Hanson JO (2018) wdpar: Interface to the World Database on
      Protected Areas. R package version 0.0.0.1. Available at:
      https://github.com/jeffreyhanson/wdpar

      UNEP-WCMC and IUCN (2018) Protected Planet: The World Database
      on Protected Areas (WDPA), [insert month/year of the version
      downloaded], Cambridge, UK: UNEP-WCMC and IUCN. Available at:
      www.protectedplanet.net.

    Please cite both the World Database on Protected Areas data set
    and this package.
    To see these entries in BibTeX format, use 'print(<citation>,
    bibtex=TRUE)', 'toBibtex(.)', or set
    'options(citation.bibtex.max=999)'.
